## Spotify Analysis

In this project, we will be taking a look at one of the most popular audio streaming platforms in the world – Spotify.  We will be looking at data on a number of songs housed on Spotify, and determine if we can predict how popular it will be.  Why Spotify? There are a couple of reasons. First off, Spotify is the world’s biggest music streaming platform, with over 286 million monthly active users. Users of the service have access to one of the biggest-ever collections of music in history, plus podcasts, and other audio content. Secondly, their API makes obtaining the data incredibly easy. With a simple command, we are able to retrieve a plethora of data points on every song in their database. We can take this and begin shaping our models accordingly.  

Before we begin, we also have to take into account what truly makes a song popular. There may be obvious answers, like if an artist is already popular, their new song will likely be popular. Or if a song is constantly played on Top 40 radio, it will likely be streamed more at home as well. Or if a record label pours money into advertising and promotion. There also are Spotify-curated playlists which impact popularity. These Playlists are instrumental in guiding consumers to specific content, according to a new working paper by researchers at the European Commission’s Joint Research Center and the University of Minnesota. We want to look deeper than that, though, doing more of an internal analysis of the songs. What about each individual song, regardless of these outside influences, makes it popular. 

Please follow along in the .ipynb file as we make our way through the [data](https://www.kaggle.com/yamaerenay/spotify-dataset-19212020-160k-tracks). You can also view a brief presentation [here](https://youtu.be/GQN6tO5s_hw).
